[migration-guide] from-gatsby initial page draft (#2114)
withastro/docs: src/pages/en/guides/migration-guide/from-gatsby.md

---
title: Migrating from Gatsby
description: Tips for migrating an existing Gatsby project to Astro
layout: ~/layouts/CMSLayout.astro
stub: false
framework: Gatsby
---

Here are some tips for converting a Gatsby project to Astro. This is not a full, step-by-step walkthrough, but it will guide you through some changes you will have to make. 

## Key Similarities

> While we'll touch on the differences between Gatsby and Astro shortly, it's important to note the ways in which the two overlap.

Author: ```suggestion
Gatsby and Astro share some similarities that will help you migrate your project:
```

Not opposed to an introductory sentence here, but also not super convinced that we need one. (Good for SEO?) Also would consider `## Key Similarities between Gatsby and Astro` in case we think that is better heading/Algolia/SEO usage.

A little note: I'm less-inclined to narrate the structure of the page (e.g. tell them what's coming up). I think this page is already gonna be quite long, there's a TOC in the sidebar, and people will get from this heading that this section is `similarities` (which is why I also think we might not need any sentence at all? Esp if we put the two names in the heading).

Thoughts?

- The syntax of `.astro` files is similar to JSX. Writing Astro should feel familiar.

> - Astro is component-based. As such, your markup structure will likely align closely before and after your migration.

Author: ```suggestion
- Astro is component-based. Your markup structure will likely align closely before and after your migration.
```

- Astro has built-in support for Markdown and an integration for using MDX files. Both Gatsby and Astro use [Remark](https://remark.js.org/) by default for Markdown manipulation and pre-processing, so you can continue to use many of your existing Remark plugins.

- Astro also has [official integrations for using React components](/en/guides/integrations-guide/react/). Note that in Astro, React files **must** have a `.jsx` or `.tsx` extention.

- Astro has support for NPM package usage, including several for React. You may be able to keep some or all of your existing React components and dependencies.

## Key Differences

> Now that you understand the ways that Astro and Gatsby align, how do they diverge?

Author: ```suggestion
When you rebuild your Gatsby site in Astro, you will notice some important differences, especially in how your project data is queried and used to create your site.
```
rebuild? recreate? port? migrate? convert? I'm torn between intentionally using a new word that might bring us new hits, vs a word that maybe feels a bit more natural/appropriate in context? Thoughts?

Also, again here I'm not entirely convinced that any sentence is necessary (is having a preamble just a wordier way to say, "differences!") BUT if we do use it, I'm thinking maybe to make it useful, a nod to an actual key difference like the GraphQL data layer, and `createPates`? Again, open to thoughts here!

> ### React App vs MPA 

Author: Nailed it, Corbin!  🚀

Gatsby is a React app, and uses `index.js` as your project's root. While Gatsby is able to generate an HTML page for each of the routes configured, it also re-initializes React for all  of the content on-screen, including static portions.

Astro is a multi-page site, and `index.astro` is your home page. It generates HTML pages for each configured route but, in contrast to Gatsby, only initializes JavaScript on the interactive elements on-screen.

> ### Page routing
> 
> Because of the differences between React apps and Astro MPA apps, you don't need to know any domain-specific knowledge to link between different pages. Instead of Gatsby's custom `<Link to="/path">` component, you'll use the HTML standard `<a href="/path">` tag.
> 
> In addition, while Gatsby primarily uses the `createPages` function to create dynamic pages, [Astro opts for page-based routing](https://docs.astro.build/en/core-concepts/routing/#dynamic-routes) that better represents the individual HTML files that are output in a build.
> 
> Finally, should you need to access information about the current route within an Astro component, [you're able to use `Astro.url`](https://docs.astro.build/en/reference/api-reference/#astrourl), which exposes a [web-standard `URL` class](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/URL).

Author: ```suggestion
### Page routing

You don't need to know any domain-specific knowledge to link between different pages in Astro. Instead of Gatsby's custom `<Link to="/path">` component, use the HTML standard `<a href="/path">` tag.

In addition, while Gatsby primarily uses the `createPages` function to create dynamic pages, [Astro opts for page-based routing](en/core-concepts/routing/#dynamic-routes) that better represents the individual HTML files that are output in a build.

To access information about the current route, use [`Astro.url`](/en/reference/api-reference/#astrourl) to expose a [web-standard `URL` class](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/URL).
```
Fixed the links to make them relative inside the project, and made the first and third points a little more direct. (Use/ vs. you'll use; not annotating "additionally/finally")

I grok the middle point, but I think the wording needs some work. The points to me are:
- Gatsby needs `createPages` AT ALL to... create any pages! Astro CAN create pages (non-dynamically) on file-placement alone. Dynamic page routes are not in fact necessary (although, totally possible!)
- `createPages` is like a config setup thing to create ALL your pages. Astro's `getStaticPaths` is right *inside* `src/pages/`, collocated with the set of pages you want to build dynamically. Maybe that's the way in which Astro's dynamic page routing is "closer to the platform of HTML"?

Is there any other nuance about that I'm not getting that should be represented? Can we keep working on the wording of point 2?

### React components vs Astro components

> Gatsby's `.js` or `.jsx` components (including pages and layouts) are exported functions that return page templating.

Author: Yup, thanks for this change!

> Astro's `.astro` pages, layouts and components are not written as exported functions. Instead, you'll split your code into a "code fence" and a body exclusively for the HTML you generate.

Author: ```suggestion
Astro's `.astro` pages, layouts and components are not written as exported functions. Instead, JavaScript is contained within a "code fence" and the body is exclusively for the HTML you generate.
```

- `gatsby-node.js`: This file handles multiple server-side operations that have built-in support in Astro:
     - GraphQL node customization: You do not need to customize the schema in Astro, but viewing the Gatsby schema may help you with defining types in your Astro projects.
     - Page creation: Astro supports both [async data loading](https://docs.astro.build/en/reference/api-reference/#getstaticpaths) and [pagination](https://docs.astro.build/en/core-concepts/routing/#pagination) right out of the box. You can cross-reference your `createPages` function to migrate the pages to Astro's methodologies.
     - Replace Gatsby plugins with integrations: In addition to [official and third-party Astro integrations](https://astro.build/integrations/), Astro supports [Vite plugins](/en/reference/configuration-reference/#vite) (and by extension [Rollup Plugins](https://vitejs.dev/guide/api-plugin.html#rollup-plugin-compatibility)) . Using these existing integrations, or [Astro's integration API](/en/reference/integrations-reference/), you can mirror your Gatsby's app plugin functionality.

> - `gatsby-ssr.js`: If you choose to use SSR in Astro, you will add and configure [the adapter of your choice](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/server-side-rendering/#adding-an-adapter) directly in `astro.config.mjs`.

Author: ```suggestion
- `gatsby-ssr.js`: If you choose to use SSR in Astro, you will add and configure [the adapter of your choice](/en/guides/server-side-rendering/#adding-an-adapter) directly in `astro.config.mjs`.
```

### Converting JSX files to `.astro` files

Here are some common actions you will perform when you convert a Gatsby `.js` component into a `.astro` component:

1. Use the returned JSX of the existing Gatsby component function as the basis for your HTML template

2. Change any [Gatsby or JSX syntax to Astro](#convert-syntax-to-astro) (e.g. `<Link to="">`, `{children}`, `className`, inline style objects) or to HTML web standards.

3. Move any necessary JavaScript, including import statements, into a "code fence" (`---`). This includes:
   - Rewriting any Gatsby function props to use `Astro.props`.

>    - Converting any imported components to Astro themselves, too.

Author: ```suggestion
   - Possibly also converting any imported components to Astro.
```

>    - Migrate JavaScript used to conditionally render content inside the HTML template directly.

Author: ```suggestion
   - Moving JavaScript used to conditionally render content inside the HTML template directly.
```

        }}>{message}</div>  
      <div
        style={{
          margin: `0 auto`,
          maxWidth: 960,
          padding: `0 1.0875rem 1.45rem`,
        }}
      >
        <main>{children}</main>
        </div>
      
      <Footer siteTitle={data.site.siteMetadata} />

    </>
  )
}

export default Component
```

```astro title="component.astro"
---
import Header from "./Header.astro"
import Footer from "./Footer.astro"
import "./layout.css"

// Migrated from GraphQL
import { site } from "../data/siteMetaData.js"

const { message } = Astro.props
---
{message === "denied"
  ? <p>You are not authorized to see this page.</p>

  : <Header siteTitle={site.title} />
    <div class="banner">{message}</div>  
    <div style="margin: 0 auto; max-width: 960; padding: 0 1.0875rem 1.45rem;">
      <main>
        <slot />
      </main>
    </div>
    <Footer siteTitle={site.title} />
}

<style>
  .banner {
    background-color: #f4f4f4; 
    padding: 1em 1.5em;
    text-align: center;
    margin-bottom: 1em;
  }
<style>
```

See more [examples from Gatsby's Starter Blog template converted step-by-step](#examples-from-gatsbys-blog-starter).

### Migrating Layout Files

> You may find it helpful to start by converting your Gatsby layouts and templates into Astro layout components. Each page in your Astro project requires its own page shell to produce a full HTML document. Astro projects typically use a base layout on every page which renders `<html>`, `<head>` and `<body>` tags. In order to be able to bring existing pages and posts from your Gatsby site, you will need an Astro layout component that provides this. Other layout components (e.g. blog post template) and components (e.g. SEO component) can be combined with this base layout.

Author: ```suggestion
You may find it helpful to start by converting your Gatsby layouts and templates into Astro layout components.

Each page in your Astro project requires its own page shell to produce a full HTML document. Astro projects typically use a base layout on every page which renders `<html>`, `<head>` and `<body>` tags. 

In order to be able to bring existing pages and posts from your Gatsby site, you will need an Astro layout component that provides this. Other layout components (e.g. blog post template) and components (e.g. SEO component) can be combined with this base layout.
```
Sarah just wants more lines spaces for readability

```jsx title="layout.jsx"
interface LayoutProps {
    title: string;
}

const Layout = ({title}: LayoutProps) => {
    // ...
}
```

In Astro, reuse the TypeScript interface and type cast the `Astro.props` destructure to enforce type safety:

```astro title="Layout.astro"
---
interface LayoutProps {
    title: string;
}

const {title} = Astro.props as LayoutProps;
---

<!-- ... -->
```

### Gatsby Styling to Astro

Styling in both Gatsby and Astro comes in a few different flavors:

- Inline styles
- Component-specific styling
- Global styling

#### Inline Styles

Convert any inline style objects in React (`style={{fontWeight: "bold", }}`) to inline HTML style attributes (`style="font-weight:bold;"`).

```jsx
// JSX
<p style={{fontWeight: "bold"}}>Hello, world</p>
```

```astro
// Astro
<p style="font-weight: bold;">Hello, world</p>
```

#### Component-specific styling

One of Astro's unique capabilities enables you to use standard `<style>` tags for scoped CSS styles.

```astro
<p>Hello, world</p>

<!-- The following will only apply to this component -->
<style>
p {
   font-weight: bold;
}
</style>
```

> However, if you'd rather, you can extract this to a dedicated file, you can extract your styling to a [CSS Module file](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/imports/#css-modules) and import that instead.

Author: ```suggestion
However, you can extract your styling to a [CSS Module file](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/imports/#css-modules) and import that instead.
```

```astro title="src/components/Hello.astro"
---
import styles from './Hello.module.css';
---

<p>Hello, world</p>
```

 ```css title="src/components/Hello.module.css"
 p {
    font-weight: bold;
 }
 ```

#### Global Styling

Global styling is applied similarly between Gatsby and Astro by importing a `css` file within a layout file.

```astro title="src/layouts/Layout.astro" {2}
---
import "global.css";
---

<html>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
	<link rel="icon" type="image/svg+xml" href="/favicon.svg" />
	<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width" />
	<meta name="generator" content={Astro.generator} />
	<title>Astro</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <slot/>
  </body>
</html>
```

```css title="src/layouts/global.css"
p {
    font-weight: bold;
}
```

> #### CSS Preprocessors

Author: Just calling out that this section doesn't feel very "Here's what to do to replicate your Gatsby setup in Astro."

Unless the example below is wildly different from how this is done in Gatsby, I'd consider just a sentence or two saying you CAN use them and so e.g. "You can use your existing setup" or a very quick explanation of what do DO when converting a site.

> [Astro supports many of CSS preprocessors](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/styling/#css-preprocessors) simply by installing the preprocessor dependencies themselves.

Author: ```suggestion
[Astro supports many CSS preprocessors](/en/guides/styling/#css-preprocessors) by installing the dependencies.
```

As an example, to use Sass, you would run:

```shell
npm install -D sass
```

After doing so, you're then able to import `.scss` or `.sass` files as you would a `.css` file. Additionally, you're able to declare the CSS preprocessor used to modify `style` tags:

```astro title="src/layouts/Layout.astro"
<p>Hello, world</p>

<style lang="scss">
p {
   color: black;
   
   &:hover {
       color: red;
   }
}
</style>
```

### Gatsby Code Comments to Astro

> An Astro file uses JavaScript code comments in the frontmatter `//` but HTML code comments in the template body. (`<!-- -->`)

Author: Should we include something like the code comment sample that's here? https://docs.astro.build/en/core-concepts/astro-components/#component-structure

![Screenshot 2022-12-12 13 36 06](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5098874/207114678-176b886a-cb45-4f53-8f42-b95e62f59b80.png)

### Gatsby Image Plugin to Astro

> Astro provides [a native Image integration](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/images/#astros-image-integration) for optimizing and working with images. This can be installed into an existing Astro project using the command line, and provides an `<Image />` component to finely control the display of a single image and a `<Picture />` component for responsive images in any `.astro` or `.mdx` file. You will need to replace Gatsby's `<StaticImage />` and `<GatsbyImage />` components with these components (and update required attributes), or with an HTML `<img>` tag. 

Author: ```suggestion
Astro provides [a native Image integration](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/images/#astros-image-integration) for optimizing and working with images. This can be installed into an existing Astro project using the command line, and provides an `<Image />` component to finely control the display of a single image and a `<Picture />` component for responsive images in any `.astro` or `.mdx` file. 

You will need to replace Gatsby's `<StaticImage />` and `<GatsbyImage />` components with these components (and include any required attributes), or with an HTML `<img>` tag. 
```

{message === "denied"
  ? <p>You are not authorized to see this page.</p>

  : <Header siteTitle={site.title} />
    <div class="banner">{message}</div>  
    <div style="margin: 0 auto; max-width: 960; padding: 0 1.0875rem 1.45rem;">
      <main>
        <slot />
      </main>
    </div>
    <Footer siteTitle={site.title} />
}

<style>
  .banner {
    background-color: #f4f4f4; 
    padding: 1em 1.5em;
    text-align: center;
    margin-bottom: 1em;
  }
<style>
```

See more [examples from Gatsby's Starter Blog template converted step-by-step](#examples-from-gatsbys-blog-starter).

### Migrating Layout Files

You may find it helpful to start by converting your Gatsby layouts and templates into Astro layout components.

Each page in your Astro project requires its own page shell to produce a full HTML document. Astro projects typically use a base layout on every page which renders `<html>`, `<head>` and `<body>` tags. 

In order to be able to bring existing pages and posts from your Gatsby site, you will need an Astro layout component that provides this. Other layout components (e.g. blog post template) and components (e.g. SEO component) can be combined with this base layout.

> In Gatsby, your main layout (`layout.js`) is normally located in `src/components/` or a dedicated layouts folder, and you may have further `.js` layout files in `src/templates/`.

Author: ```suggestion
#### `layout.js` to `Layout.astro`

In Gatsby, your main layout (`layout.js`) is normally located in `src/components/` or a dedicated layouts folder, and you may have further `.js` layout files in `src/templates/`.
```
Let's see if we hate this.

For a base layout component, remember that your HTML must include a full page shell (`<html>`, `<head>` and `<body>` tags). Your Gatsby `layout.js` and templates will not include these. Additionally, you'll use a `<slot/>` instead of React's `{children}` prop.

As a starting point, you can use the following code to provide these extra elements around an existing Gatsby layout file. You may also wish to reuse code from Gatsby's `src/components/seo.js` to include additional site metadata. You can enter your site data manually, import it from a file in your project `src`, or even create an Astro SEO component that provides your layout with `<meta>` and `<link>` tags.

```astro title="src/layouts/Layout.astro"
<html lang="en">
	<head>
		<meta charset="utf-8" />
		<link rel="icon" type="image/svg+xml" href="/favicon.svg" />
		<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width" />
		<meta name="generator" content={Astro.generator} />
		<title>Astro</title>
	</head>
	<body>
		<slot />
	</body>
</html>
```

> ### Migrating Pages and Posts
> 
> In Gatsby, your pages and posts may exist in `src/pages/` or outside of `src` in another folder, like `content`.
> 
> In Astro, **your pages should live within `src/pages/`**. Astro's file-based routing will create a page for each file located in `pages` or any subdirectory. Only `.astro`, `.md` (or `.mdx` after installing [the MDX integration](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/integrations-guide/mdx/)) files here will create page routes. Your existing Gatsby JSX (`.js`) pages will need to be [converted from JSX files to `astro` pages](#converting-jsx-files-to-astro-files).
> 
> These files will create page routes based on the file path and name. For example, `src/pages/posts/first-post.md` will create a page at the URL `www.my-domain.com/posts/first-post/`. 
> 
> :::note
> Either of these files will create a page at `www.my-domain.com/about/`:
> 
> - `/src/pages/about.astro|.md|.mdx`
> - `/src/pages/about/index.astro|.md|.mdx`
> :::
> 
> You can use project folders with file-based routing to create your desired URLs. Or, you can use Astro's [dynamic routing](/en/core-concepts/routing/#dynamic-routes) for more control over page slugs that do not need to correspond exactly to your folder structure.
> 
> With dynamic routing, your Markdown posts may even exist outside of `src/pages/` but they should still be kept within your project source folder (e.g. `src/posts/`) so that the dynamic page file (e.g. `src/pages/blog/[slug].astro` can import their data.)
> 
> #### Migrating Custom a Custom 404 Page 
> 
> To [create a custom 404 page with Astro](https://docs.astro.build/en/core-concepts/astro-pages/#custom-404-error-page), create a file called `src/pages/404.astro`. Most [deploy services](/en/guides/deploy/) will find and use it.
> 
> ### Migrating Tests
> 
> As Astro outputs raw HTML, it's possible to write end-to-end tests utilizing the output of the build step. Any end-to-end tests written previously should, potentially, work out-of-the-box, assuming you've been able to match the markup of the older Gatsby site.
> 
> See our [testing guide](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/testing/) for more.

Author: ```suggestion
### Migrating Pages and Posts

In Gatsby, your pages and posts may exist in `src/pages/` or outside of `src` in another folder, like `content`.

In Astro, **your pages should live within `src/pages/`**. Astro's file-based routing will create a page for each file located in `pages` or any subdirectory. Only `.astro`, `.md` (or `.mdx` after installing [the MDX integration](/en/guides/integrations-guide/mdx/)) files here will create page routes. Your existing Gatsby JSX (`.js`) pages will need to be [converted from JSX files to `astro` pages](#converting-jsx-files-to-astro-files).

These files will create page routes based on the file path and name. For example, `src/pages/posts/first-post.md` will create a page at the URL `www.my-domain.com/posts/first-post/`. 

:::note
Either of these files will create a page at `www.my-domain.com/about/`:

- `/src/pages/about.astro|.md|.mdx`
- `/src/pages/about/index.astro|.md|.mdx`
:::

You can use project folders with file-based routing to create your desired URLs. Or, you can use Astro's [dynamic routing](/en/core-concepts/routing/#dynamic-routes) for more control over page slugs that do not need to correspond exactly to your folder structure.

With dynamic routing, your Markdown posts may even exist outside of `src/pages/` but they should still be kept within your project source folder (e.g. `src/posts/`) so that the dynamic page file (e.g. `src/pages/blog/[slug].astro` can import their data.)

#### Migrating Custom a Custom 404 Page 

To [create a custom 404 page with Astro](/en/core-concepts/astro-pages/#custom-404-error-page), create a file called `src/pages/404.astro`. Most [deploy services](/en/guides/deploy/) will find and use it.

### Migrating Tests

As Astro outputs raw HTML, it's possible to write end-to-end tests utilizing the output of the build step. Any end-to-end tests written previously should, potentially, work out-of-the-box, assuming you've been able to match the markup of the older Gatsby site.

See our [testing guide](/en/guides/testing/) for more.
```

<header>
    <nav>
        <ul>
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <slot name="navItems"/>
        </ul>
    </nav>
	<slot/>
</header>
```

```astro title="src/components/Component.astro"
---
import PageHeader from './PageHeader.astro';
---

<PageHeader>
	<a href="/">CompanyCo</a>
	<li slot="navItems"><a href="/blog">Blog</a></li>
</PageHeader>

<!-- ... -->
```
See more about [specific `<slot />` usage in Astro](/en/core-concepts/astro-components/#slots) for details.

### Gatsby Component Props to Astro

To access specific attributes passed to your component (e.g. `<Layout title="About Me"/>`), use `Astro.props`.

The following Gatsby React component:

```jsx title="layout.jsx"
const Layout = ({title}) => {
    // ...
}
```

Is turned into the following Astro component:

```astro title="Layout.astro"
---
const {title} = Astro.props;
---

<!-- ... -->
```

#### Type-checking Props

If you're coming from a TypeScript codebase, your Gatsby component might have an interface associated with the component's props:

```jsx title="layout.jsx"
interface LayoutProps {
    title: string;
}

const Layout = ({title}: LayoutProps) => {
    // ...
}
```

> In Astro, we can reuse the TypeScript interface and type cast our `Astro.props` destructure to enforce type safety:

Author: ```suggestion
In Astro, reuse the TypeScript interface and type cast the `Astro.props` destructure to enforce type safety:
```
Note to us all, when an edit like this "just works", let's just go ahead and do it!

```astro title="Layout.astro"
---
interface LayoutProps {
    title: string;
}

const {title} = Astro.props as LayoutProps;
---

<!-- ... -->
```

### Gatsby Styling to Astro

> Styling in both Gatsby and Astro come in a few different flavors:

Author: ```suggestion
Styling in both Gatsby and Astro comes in a few different flavors:
```

- Inline styles
- Component-specific styling
- Global styling

#### Inline Styles

Convert any inline style objects in React (`style={{fontWeight: "bold", }}`) to inline HTML style attributes (`style="font-weight:bold;"`).

> Knowing this, the following:
> 
> ```jsx
> <p style={{fontWeight: "bold"}}>Hello, world</p>
> ```
> 
> Is converted to:
> 
> ```astro
> <p style="font-weight: bold;">Hello, world</p>
> ```

Author: ``````suggestion
```jsx
// JSX
<p style={{fontWeight: "bold"}}>Hello, world</p>
```

```astro
// Astro
<p style="font-weight: bold;">Hello, world</p>
```
``````
Trying this on for size. I *might* not even be temped to include code here?

      <Link className="header-link-home" to="/">
        Home
      </Link>
    )
  }

  return (
    <div className="global-wrapper" data-is-root-path={isRootPath}>
      <header className="global-header">{header}</header>
      <main>{children}</main>
      <footer>
        © {new Date().getFullYear()}, Built with
        {` `}
        <a href="https://www.gatsbyjs.com">Gatsby</a>
      </footer>
    </div>
  )
}

export default Layout
```

Start to build `Layout.astro` using only this `return` value, converting it to Astro syntax (HTML with JSX-like expressions). 

Note that:

- `{new Date().getFullYear()}` just works
- `{children}` becomes `<slot />`
- `className` becomes `class`
- `Gatsby` becomes `Astro` 🚀

```astro title="src/layouts/Layout.astro" "<slot />" "class" "Astro" "astro.build"
<div class="global-wrapper" data-is-root-path={isRootPath}>
  <header class="global-header">{header}</header>
  <main><slot /></main>
  <footer>
    © {new Date().getFullYear()}, Built with
    {` `}
    <a href="https://www.astro.build">Astro</a>
  </footer>
</div>
```

Next, add a page shell so that your layout provides each page with the necessary parts of an HTML document:

> ```astro title="src/layouts/Layout.astro" ins={1-3,13-14}

Author: ```suggestion
```astro title="src/layouts/Layout.astro" ins={1-3,19-20}
```

See our [testing guide](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/testing/) for more.

## Convert Syntax to Astro

### Gatsby Links to Astro

Convert any Gatsby `<Link to="">`, `<NavLink>` etc. components to HTML `<a href="">` tags. 

Astro does not use any special component for links, although you are welcome to build custom link components. You can then import and use this `<Link>` just as you would any other component.

```astro title="src/components/Link.astro"
---
const { to } = Astro.props
---
<a href={to}><slot /></a>
```

### Gatsby Imports to Astro

Astro requires file imports to reference relative file paths exactly. This can be done using [import aliases](/en/guides/typescript/#import-aliases), or by writing out a relative path in full (e.g. `../../layouts/Layout.astro`). Note that `.astro` and several other file types must be imported with their full file extension.

### Gatsby Children to Astro

Convert any instances of `{children}` to an Astro `<slot />`. Astro does not need to receive `{children}` as a function prop and will automatically render child content in a `<slot />`.

> Similarly, some React components may pass multiple sets of children like so:

Author: ```suggestion
React components that pass multiple sets of children can be migrated to an Astro component using [named slots](https://docs.astro.build/en/core-concepts/astro-components/#named-slots):
```

```jsx title="pageheader.jsx"
export const PageHeader = ({navItems, children}) => {
	return (
		<header>
			{children}
			<nav>
				<ul>
					<li><Link to="/">Home</a></li>
					{navItems}
				</ul>
			</nav>
		</header>
	)
}
```

```jsx title="app.jsx"
import {PageHeader} from './pageheader';

export const App = () => {
	return (
		// ...
		<PageHeader navItems={<li><Link to="/blog">Blog</a></li>}>
			<Link to="/">CompanyCo</a>
		</PageHeader>
		// ...
	)
}
```

> 
> 
> This can be migrated to an Astro component using [named slots](https://docs.astro.build/en/core-concepts/astro-components/#named-slots):
> 
> ```astro title="src/components/PageHeader.astro"
> <header>
>     <nav>
>         <ul>
>             <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
>             <slot name="navItems"/>
>         </ul>
>     </nav>
> 	<slot/>
> </header>
> ```
> 
> ```astro title="src/components/App.astro"
> ---
> import PageHeader from './PageHeader.astro';
> ---
> 
> <PageHeader>
> 	<a href="/">CompanyCo</a>
> 	<li slot="navItems"><a href="/blog">Blog</a></li>
> </PageHeader>
> 
> <!-- ... -->
> ```

Author: ``````suggestion
The above component can be reproduced in Astro by using a `slot=""` attribute to pass data to a particular named `<slot />` placeholder component.

```astro title="src/components/PageHeader.astro"
<header>
    <nav>
        <ul>
            <li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
            <slot name="navItems"/>
        </ul>
    </nav>
	<slot/>
</header>
```

```astro title="src/components/Component.astro"
---
import PageHeader from './PageHeader.astro';
---

<PageHeader>
	<a href="/">CompanyCo</a>
	<li slot="navItems"><a href="/blog">Blog</a></li>
</PageHeader>

<!-- ... -->
```
See more about [specific `<slot />` usage in Astro](/en/core-concepts/astro-components/#slots) for details.
``````
Just me or maybe let's not do `App.astro`??  😅

- `Gatsby` becomes `Astro` 🚀

```astro title="src/layouts/Layout.astro" "<slot />" "class" "Astro" "astro.build"
<div class="global-wrapper" data-is-root-path={isRootPath}>
  <header class="global-header">{header}</header>
  <main><slot /></main>
  <footer>
    © {new Date().getFullYear()}, Built with
    {` `}
    <a href="https://www.astro.build">Astro</a>
  </footer>
</div>
```

Next, add a page shell so that your layout provides each page with the necessary parts of an HTML document:

```astro title="src/layouts/Layout.astro" ins={1-3,19-20}
<html>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
	<link rel="icon" type="image/svg+xml" href="/favicon.svg" />
	<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width" />
	<meta name="generator" content={Astro.generator} />
	<title>Astro</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <div class="global-wrapper" data-is-root-path={isRootPath}>
      <header class="global-header">{header}</header>
      <main><slot /></main>
      <footer>
        &#169; {new Date().getFullYear()}, Built with
        {` `}
        <a href="https://www.astro.build">Astro</a>
      </footer>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
```

#### Add any needed JavaScript

> You can figure out which JavaScript or JSX you must bring over from `layout.js` by looking for what is used but not yet defined in the `Layout.astro` template: `{isRootPath}` and `{header}`. 

Author: ```suggestion
You can figure out which JavaScript or JSX you must bring over from `layout.js` (or remove/replace with Astro solutions) by looking for what is used but not yet defined in the `Layout.astro` template: `{isRootPath}` and `{header}`. 
```

> ```astro title="src/layouts/Layout.astro" "isRootPath" "header"

Author: ```suggestion
```astro title="src/layouts/Layout.astro" "{isRootPath}" "{header}"
```
Can I include left bracket??  😅

<div class="global-wrapper" data-is-root-path={isRootPath}>
  <header class="global-header">{header}</header>
  <main><slot /></main>
  <footer>
    © {new Date().getFullYear()}, Built with
    {` `}
    <a href="https://www.astro.build">Astro</a>
  </footer>
</div>
```

To conditionally render a header based on props in Astro, we need to:

1. Provide the props via `Astro.props`.
2. Use a ternary operator to show one heading if this is the home page, and a different heading otherwise. 
3. Remove variables for `{header}` and `{isRootPath}`, now that we don't need them anymore.
4. Replace Gatsby's `<Link/>` tags with `<a>` anchor tags.
5. Use `class` instead of `className`. 
6. Import a local stylesheet from your project for the class names to take effect.

> ```astro title="src/layouts/Layout.astro" {3-4,14-15, 17, 19, 21, 23, 25, 31} "class"

Author: ``````suggestion
```astro title="src/layouts/Layout.astro" {2-3,14-15, 19, 23, 31} ins={17, 21, 25} "class"
``````

---
import '../styles/style.css';
const { title, pathname } = Astro.props
---
<html>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
	<link rel="icon" type="image/svg+xml" href="/favicon.svg" />
	<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width" />
	<meta name="generator" content={Astro.generator} />
	<title>Astro</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <div class="global-wrapper">
      <header class="global-header">
        { pathname === "/" 
         ? 
           <h1 class="main-heading">
           <a href="/">{title}</a>
           </h1>
         : 
           <h1 class="main-heading">
           <a class="header-link-home" href="/">Home</a>
           </h1>
        }  
      </header>
      <main><slot /></main>
      <footer>
        &#169; {new Date().getFullYear()}, Built with
        {` `}
        <a href="https://www.astro.build">Astro</a>
      </footer>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
```

You'll then update `index.astro` to use this new layout and pass it the necessary `title` and `pathname` props. 

:::tip
Remember that [you can get the current page's path using `Astro.url`](#page-routing).
:::

``` astro title="src/pages/index.astro"

> ---
> import BaseLayout from '../layouts/BaseLayout.astro';
> const pagePathname = Astro.url.pathname
> ---
> <BaseLayout title="Home Page" pathname={pagePathname}>
>     <p>Astro</p>
> </BaseLayout>

Author: ```suggestion
---
import Layout from '../layouts/Layout.astro';
const pagePathname = Astro.url.pathname
---
<Layout title="Home Page" pathname={pagePathname}>
    <p>Astro</p>
</Layout>
```

<html>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
	<link rel="icon" type="image/svg+xml" href="/favicon.svg" />
	<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width" />
	<meta name="generator" content={Astro.generator} />
	<title>Astro</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <div class="global-wrapper" data-is-root-path={isRootPath}>
      <header class="global-header">{header}</header>
      <main><slot /></main>
      <footer>
        &#169; {new Date().getFullYear()}, Built with
        {` `}
        <a href="https://www.astro.build">Astro</a>
      </footer>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
```

#### Add any needed JavaScript

You can figure out which JavaScript or JSX you must bring over from `layout.js` by looking for what is used but not yet defined in the `Layout.astro` template: `{isRootPath}` and `{header}`. 

```astro title="src/layouts/Layout.astro" "isRootPath" "header"
<div class="global-wrapper" data-is-root-path={isRootPath}>
  <header class="global-header">{header}</header>
  <main><slot /></main>
  <footer>
    © {new Date().getFullYear()}, Built with
    {` `}
    <a href="https://www.astro.build">Astro</a>
  </footer>
</div>
```

> Your Astro templating accesses props through its frontmatter, not passed into a function.
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```
This just felt out of place. Let's see if we can get away without it.
